Once you've got a Web hosting account, installing WordPress is a breeze because it's so popular.
Most web hosting companies offer an easy one click WordPress installation.
But what that looks like is going to vary a little bit from one host to another.
You may have had an option when you first signed up to go ahead and install WordPress automatically,
or you may have to go into your control panel and do it there.
If you followed, along with the previous lecture and set up an account on Bluehost, here's what that
process is going to look like.
When you log into the Bluehost customer area, you should see a welcome message inviting you to create
or migrate your website.
To get started, click Create your web site.
At this point, Bluehost will open a wizard to guide you through some of the initial setup stuff.
You can go through this if you want, but to help you better follow along with this tutorial, I actually
recommend skipping all of these steps.
Now, when you see this page that says, how would you like to build your WordPress site, select the
limitless customization option.
So once you've skipped through the wizard, you'll find yourself in the main Bluehost customer area
from here.
Click the button that says Log into WordPress.
This will open the WordPress dashboard, which is where you'll manage all aspects of your website.
Now, right away, you may notice that this is a pretty busy interface with lots of things going on.
This is because Bluehost preloaded WordPress with a bunch of plug ins that you may or may not actually
need.
Personally, this kind of stresses me out.
I prefer to start with a clean slate.
So before we get into the nitty gritty of WordPress, let's get rid of all the stuff that's been pre-installed
so we can build our site from scratch.
So if you look over at the left sidebar, you'll see a menu option that says plug ins, hover your mouse
over that and then click installed plugins.
Next, scroll down to the list of plugins and use the checkbox at the top to select all of them.
Then use this bulk actions menu to select, deactivate and click Apply.
You can then use the exact same process to go ahead and delete all of these plugins as well.
Right away, your entire interface should look much cleaner, and it'll be easier to follow along not
only with this tutorial but with other WordPress tutorials you may find around the web because now you're
using the standard stock WordPress dashboard without any of the clutter that your web hosting company
adds on top of it.
We'll cover plug ins later in this course, and you can decide for yourself which ones you actually
want or need for your particular website.
Now, one more quick step to make your life a little bit easier.
Let's go ahead and set a password for your WordPress account.
This is going to allow you to log into your website directly without having to go through Bluehost every
time.
So over in the left sidebar menu, click profile under the user section and then scroll down and click
Set New Password, then just enter a new password and click Update profile.
Once you've done this, you should be able to access your WordPress dashboard any time by adding Slash
WP Dash admin to the end of your domain name.
From now on, you'll be managing everything about your website.
From the WordPress dashboard.
You really only need to log in to Bluehost when you want to change your billing preferences or contact
Bluehost support or add a new website to your account for anything else.
When it comes to managing your website itself, you're going to do that through the WordPress dashboard,
which again, you can find by adding Slash WP Dash admin to your domain name.
So again, your domain Dot-Com slash WP Dash admin.
From there, you'll just log in with your email address and the password you just created.
And by the way, if you get some kind of error when you're trying to visit your website or your WordPress
dashboard directly, you probably just need to wait a few minutes for your domain name to finish activating.
Sometimes that's instant.
Sometimes it takes a little while.
It just depends.
And once again, make sure you've verified your email address because you have to do that before your
domain name is fully activated.
Now, while we're on the subject, after you've waited a few minutes, go ahead and open a new tab and
type in your domain name.
Let me be the first to congratulate you.
You literally have a live website up and running now.
It's not much yet.
It's pretty boring, but it's there.
And now it's time to customize it.
Now that your website is up and running, there are a few basic settings you'll want to customize to
your liking.
So from your WordPress dashboard, click General under the Settings menu.
On this page, you can change your site title.
You'll notice there's probably a default placeholder there.
Just clear that out and enter whatever you want your site to be called.
Then you can add a short tagline, which may show up in various places on your site.
This is optional.
You can just delete the placeholder text if you're unsure.
Finally, be sure to set the time zone to match your local time when you're happy with these settings,
scroll down and click Save Changes.